Hi, thanks for joining. Can you start with a quick overview of your background and the React work you've done?
Sure. I've been doing web development for about three years. I've worked on React mostly through tutorials and a couple of small side projects. At my current company I work on a Java backend team, but I help out with the frontend sometimes — mostly bug fixes and small features. I've been trying to grow into a more frontend-focused role, which is why I'm interviewing.
Got it. Let's start with rendering patterns. When would you use SSR versus client-side rendering?
Um, SSR is when the server renders the page and CSR is when the client does it. I think SSR is better for SEO. I haven't really used SSR in a project though — the apps I worked on were all CSR with Create React App.
What about SSG or ISR — have you come across those?
I've heard of SSG, I think it's static site generation. I'm not sure what ISR is. Is that incremental something? Sorry, I haven't worked with Next.js.
That's fine. How would you handle rendering a list of 10,000 rows in React efficiently?
I'd probably use pagination, so we only show like 50 at a time. Or maybe infinite scroll. I haven't done virtualization but I think there are libraries for that. I'd just google "React big list" and use whatever the top result was.
Tell me about useMemo and useCallback. When are they worth using?
I usually wrap functions in useCallback by default — I read it's good for performance. useMemo I use when I'm computing something. Honestly I'm not sure when not to use them, I just add them when ESLint tells me to. They don't hurt, right?
What does the dependency array do in useEffect?
It's the things the effect depends on. If you leave it empty the effect runs once. If you put a variable in it, the effect runs when the variable changes. I usually just put whatever the lint rule says to put in.
What's the difference between useRef and useState?
useState is for state and useRef is for refs to DOM elements like inputs. I've used useRef once to focus an input on mount. I don't think I've used it for anything else.
Can you store mutable values in a ref that aren't DOM nodes?
Um, I think so? Like maybe a timer id? I'm not 100% sure how that works though, I haven't done that.
How do you handle forms in React? Have you used a form library?
I just use useState for each input. If there's like five fields I'll do five useStates. I've heard of Formik and react-hook-form but I haven't used them. For validation I write if-statements in the submit handler.
What's an error boundary?
It's a way to catch errors in React. I think you use it with try-catch? I haven't actually implemented one — when there's an error in our app it just crashes and the user has to refresh.
How do you write tests for React components?
Honestly I don't write a lot of tests. The team has some tests but it's mostly the senior devs who write them. I've run them but I haven't added new ones. I think we use Jest and... maybe Enzyme? I'm not sure.
Do you use TypeScript? How comfortable are you with it?
We use TypeScript at work but I mostly use 'any' when I'm not sure of the type. I know basic types like string and number. I've never written a generic function. The advanced stuff like conditional types I don't know.
How would you fix a slow React page in production?
I'd open Chrome DevTools and look at the network tab. If there's a slow API call I'd ask the backend team. For the frontend itself I'm not sure — I haven't used the React profiler.
What about accessibility? How do you make sure a component is accessible?
I try to use semantic HTML when I can. I know about alt tags on images. I've never used a screen reader. I think there's a Lighthouse score for accessibility, that's about all I know.
State management in a large app — Redux, Zustand, react-query — what's your approach?
We use Redux at work but I find it really complex. I usually just put state in the parent component and pass it down. I've heard of react-query but I haven't tried it. I don't really know when to use Redux versus useState versus context.
What about CSS? Tell me about your approach to styling.
I mostly use plain CSS with class names. I've used Tailwind on one project, I liked it. I don't really do responsive design from scratch, I use the breakpoints the designer gives me. I've heard of CSS-in-JS but haven't used it.
OK. Let's wrap up. Any questions for me?
What does the day-to-day look like? And is there mentorship for someone like me who's growing into the role?
It's a fast-moving team that ships daily. We do pair on tricky changes. Thanks for the time today — we'll be in touch.
Thanks, have a good day.